docs: preview command (#1384)
Redocly/redocly-cli: docs/commands/preview.md

# `preview`

## Introduction

> The `preview` command starts a preview server for a Redocly project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `preview` command starts a local preview server for a Redocly project. Use the preview to develop your project locally before deployment.
```

| --plan       | string  | Product plan to use in preview. <br/> **Possible values:** `pro`, `enterprise`. The default value is `enterprise`.                                                                    |
| --product    | string  | Name of a project to preview the product with. <br/> **Possible values:** `redoc`, `revel`, `reef`, `realm`, `redoc-revel`, `redoc-reef`, `revel-reef`. The default value is `realm`. |
| --source-dir | string  | Path to the project directory. The default value is `.` (current directory).                                                                                                          |
| --port       | number  | The port to run the preview server on. The default value is `4000`.                                                                                                                   |
| --version    | boolean | Shows version number.                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Examples

### Select a product for preview

> Instead of inferring the product package to use for preview from `package.json` or using Realm by default, you can specify the product package as an argument.

Reviewer: To make the wording more positive, start with "Specify the package to use ...." and then explain that if the argument isn't supplied, we'll try to guess.

```bash
redocly preview --product=revel
```

### Select a plan for preview

> By default, the preview is run in an enterprise plan mode. This makes all of the enterprise features available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previews are run in enterprise plan mode by default. This mode makes all of the enterprise features available.
```

> Alternatively, you can run the preview with a professional plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switch the preview to professional plan mode by setting `--plan` to `pro`.
```

```bash
redocly preview --plan=pro
```

### Specify project directory

> By default, the preview command uses the current directory. To specify another directory, provide a path to it relative to the current directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preview command uses the current directory by default. To specify another directory, provide a path to it relative to the current directory:
```

```bash
redocly preview --source-dir=./path/to/my/docs/
```

### Custom port for preview

> By default, without using the `port` option, the preview starts on port `4000`, so you can access the docs at `http://localhost:4000` or `http://127.0.0.1:4000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preview starts on port `4000` by default, so you can access the docs at `http://localhost:4000` or `http://127.0.0.1:4000`.
```

# `preview`

## Introduction

The `preview` command starts a local preview server for a Redocly project. Use the preview to develop your project locally before deployment.

> {% admonition type="info" name="Important" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% admonition type="info" name="Pre-release" %}
```

> This command uses some early-release functionality. Look out for wider release announcements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command is for our pre-release products, currently open for early access to a small number of users. We will be making release announcements through our [mailing list](https://redocly.com/product-updates/).
```

| --help           | boolean | Shows help.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| --plan           | string  | Product plan to use in preview. <br/> **Possible values:** `pro`, `enterprise`. The default value is `enterprise`.                                                                                                                              |
| --product        | string  | Name of a project to preview the product with. <br/> **Possible values:** `redoc`, `revel`, `reef`, `realm`, `redoc-revel`, `redoc-reef`, `revel-reef`. The default value is autodetected from the project's `package.json` or `realm` is used. |
| --source-dir, -d | string  | Path to the project directory. The default value is `.` (current directory).                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | --port           | number  | The port to run the preview server on. The default value is `4000`.                                                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer: Do we support `-p` as well here?

Author: No. We have three arguments that start with a `p` - `plan`, `product`, and `port`, so I wasn't sure if it would confuse users.

But considering we have `-p` as short for `port` in other places, it might make sense to add it here as well. What do you think?

Reviewer: I think you are right, let's keep the long one as the only option here. We do have port shorthand in the other preview command, but we also have host there, so it's fine to not support it here. And it's easier to add it later than to take it away :)

| --version        | boolean | Shows version number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

## Examples

### Select a product for preview

Specify the product package to use by setting a `--product` argument.

> If this setting is not supplied, the preview command will try to guess which package to use from the project's `package.json` or use `realm` by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this setting is not supplied, the preview command tries to guess which package to use from the project's `package.json` or use `realm` by default.
```

```bash
redocly preview --product=revel
```

### Select a plan for preview

Previews are run in enterprise plan mode by default. This mode makes all of the enterprise features available.

> Switch the preview to professional plan mode by setting `--plan` to `pro`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Switch the preview to pro plan mode by setting `--plan` to `pro`.
```

Reviewer 2: (Not to be confused with the professional plan on the Workflows pricing page.)
